The software architecture used by the Project 1 team most closely resembles a pipes-and-filters architecture. The software’s function relies heavily on the user’s input and has to frequently check if said input is valid. The greatest example of “pipes” and “filters” is placing the battleships. The user inputs commands through the keyboard and mouse to control the placement of ships. Functions that act as “pipes” translates this information into data the program can read. For example, button1_Click() takes in the left click input and updates ship positions. The GameChoice_KeyDown() function waits for the user to input the keypress of “r” so that it can rotate the ship. Other functions act as “filters” to prevent the user from providing bad input into the program such as detecting if a ship has gone out of bounds and then reverting the ship back to its last legal position. The functions checkOverlap() and checkInBounds() check for overlapping ships and if the ship is out of bounds or not. Finally, there are functions that act as a “pipe” to provide the user feedback on their input. These functions draw everything on screen. The pictureBox object along with the group of functions related to it handle everything related to drawing all the graphics. Refresh() just updates the display to show all the changes that were made in relation to the user’s input. pictureBox_MouseDown() is a mix of everything where it handles input, checks for validity and also updates the visuals for the user.
